03-control-flow/README.md, before:


# Chapter 3: Control Flow

Welcome back, Python learners! 🚀 In this chapter, we'll dive deep into the exciting world of control flow in Python, exploring conditionals and loops to create dynamic, interactive scripts and projects. Let’s embark on this adventurous journey together!

## Table of Contents

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Lesson Plan](#lesson-plan)
- [Project: Adventure Game](#project-adventure-game)
  - [Objective](#objective)
  - [Requirements](#requirements)
  - [Guidance](#guidance)
- [Quiz](#quiz)
- [Next Steps](#next-steps)
- [Additional Resources](#additional-resources)

## Introduction

Welcome to Chapter 3: Control Flow! 🚀 In this chapter, we embark on a journey through the logical constructs that give our programs decision-making abilities. We'll delve deep into conditionals and loops, creating a pathway for writing dynamic and interactive Python scripts. Get ready to build an engaging "Adventure Game" that provides a vibrant, user-driven experience!

## Lesson Plan

### 1. Conditionals
#### Understanding `if`, `elif`, and `else`
Conditionals are foundational blocks in Python that facilitate decision-making. An `if` statement checks a condition: if the condition is `True`, the code within the block is executed. Optionally, `elif` and `else` can be used to handle alternative outcomes.

```python
age = 18
if age >= 18:
    print("You are an adult.")
else:
    print("You are a minor.")
```

**Why Conditionals?** They allow our code to exhibit different behaviors based on certain conditions, enhancing its flexibility and adaptability to various scenarios.

#### Logical Operators
Logical operators, namely `and`, `or`, and `not`, enable us to create compound conditional statements, enriching our ability to express logical flows accurately.

```python
is_weekday = True
is_holiday = False
if is_weekday and not is_holiday:
    print("Time to work!")
```

**Importance:** Logical operators empower our conditionals, allowing us to craft more sophisticated and precise logical paths in our code.

### 2. Loops
#### Looping with `for`
A `for` loop iterates over a sequence (like a list, tuple, or string), executing a block of code for each element in the sequence.

```python
for fruit in ['apple', 'banana', 'cherry']:
    print(fruit)
```

**Benefit:** `for` loops allow us to automate repetitive tasks, making our code more efficient and concise.

#### Looping with `while`
A `while` loop perpetually executes a block of code as long as the specified condition remains `True`. Be cautious to avoid infinite loops!

```python
counter = 0
while counter < 5:
    print(counter)
    counter += 1
```

**Usage:** `while` loops are excellent when the number of iterations is unknown or contingent on dynamic conditions.

#### Controlling Loop Execution
- `break`: Prematurely exits the loop, halting further iterations.
- `continue`: Bypasses the remainder of the loop's code block and proceeds to the next iteration.

```python
for number in range(10):
    if number == 5:
        break  # Stops the loop when number equals 5
    elif number % 2 == 0:
        continue  # Skips even numbers
    print(number)
```

**Practicality:** Control statements like `break` and `continue` offer us greater control over loop execution, enabling us to manage iterations effectively.

### Bringing It All Together: Mini-Example
In this comprehensive mini-example, we'll create a small quiz game that encapsulates concepts from Chapters 1 and 2, in addition to the present chapter. This game will prompt the user to guess a number, giving them multiple tries until they either succeed or choose to quit, and will include input validation to ensure a smooth user experience.

```python
import random

# Use a predefined list of possible answers and select one using random.choice()
possible_answers = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
correct_answer = random.choice(possible_answers)

# Initialize a variable to control the while loop
user_guessed_correctly = False

# Provide instructions to the user
print("Welcome to the Number Guessing Game!")
print("I have selected a number between 1 and 5. Try to guess it!")
print("Type 'exit' anytime to stop playing.")

# Use a while loop to allow the user multiple guesses
while not user_guessed_correctly:
    # Capture user input and validate it
    user_input = input("Your guess: ")
    
    # Allow the user to exit the game
    if user_input.lower() == 'exit':
        print(f"The correct answer was {correct_answer}.")
        print("Thanks for playing! Goodbye.")
        break
    
    # Validate input: isnumeric and within the possible answers
    if user_input.isnumeric() and int(user_input) in possible_answers:
        user_answer = int(user_input)
        
        # Check the user's guess and provide feedback
        if user_answer == correct_answer:
            print("Congratulations! You guessed it right.")
            user_guessed_correctly = True  # End the loop
        else:
            print("Oops! That's not correct. Try again.")
    else:
        print("Invalid input. Please guess a number between 1 and 5.")
```

### Key Takeaways
- Conditionals (`if`, `elif`, `else`) enable decision-making.
- Loops (`for`, `while`) allow code to be repeated.
- Logical operators and loop control statements (`break`, `continue`) further manage control flow.

## Project: Adventure Game

### Objective

Construct an interactive, text-based adventure game where the user navigates through different scenarios by making choices.

### Requirements

- Provide the user with a series of choices.
- Use conditionals to determine the path the user takes through the game.
- Utilize loops to allow continuous gameplay until a termination condition is met.
- Ensure clear instructions and feedback for the user.

### Guidance

1. **Designing Scenarios:**
   - **Narrative Sketch:** Create a layout or script of your game's narrative, defining the various scenarios, potential user choices, and the consequences of those choices.
   
2. **User Choices:** 
   - **Capturing Input:** Utilize `input()` to obtain user choices at each decision point in your script.
   - **Validating Input:** Ensure the user's input is valid (for instance, if a choice between "1" and "2" is needed, check their input against these options) and provide feedback for invalid input. Use a loop to continuously request input until a valid response is received.

3. **Game Logic:** 
   - **Utilizing Conditionals:** Employ `if`, `elif`, and `else` statements to guide what occurs based on the user's choices.
   - **Implementing Loops:** 
     - **Input Loops:** Develop loops to allow users to maintain making choices until they provide a valid response.
     - **Game Loop:** Consider implementing a main game loop that propels the game forward until the user opts to exit, enabling a continuous play experience.
   
4. **Ending the Game:**
   - **Conclusions:** Decide how your game will conclude. Will it end automatically upon the storyline’s conclusion, or is there an option to replay? If replay is an option, ensure the game can restart cleanly.

5. **Testing:**
   - **Thorough Checks:** Ensure to test your game thoroughly. Confirm that all scenarios are navigable, invalid inputs are gracefully managed, and the game can progress from start to finish without unforeseen errors.

**Pro Tip:** Always prioritize user experience: offer clear instructions, ensure logical game flow, and aim for an engaging, fun interaction! This project is not only a test of your understanding of loops and conditionals but also an opportunity to create something enjoyable with your new Python skills!


## Quiz

Stay tuned! A quiz to validate your knowledge on control flow in Python is on the way.

## Next Steps

Fantastic job on reaching the end of Chapter 3! 🎉 Ready for more adventures? Proceed to [Chapter 4](../04-data-structures/README.md) to explore data structures in Python.

## Additional Resources

- [Python Official Documentation: Control Flow](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/controlflow.html)
- [W3Schools: Python Conditions and If statements](https://www.w3schools.com/python/python_conditions.asp)
- [GeeksforGeeks: Loops in Python](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/loops-in-python/)

Happy Coding! 🚀

Commit message:

Chapter 12 complete, including finished project

03-control-flow/README.md, after:


# Chapter 3: Control Flow

Welcome back, Python learners! 🚀 In this chapter, we'll dive deep into the exciting world of control flow in Python, exploring conditionals and loops to create dynamic, interactive scripts and projects. Let’s embark on this adventurous journey together!

## Table of Contents

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Lesson Plan](#lesson-plan)
- [Project: Adventure Game](#project-adventure-game)
  - [Objective](#objective)
  - [Requirements](#requirements)
  - [Guidance](#guidance)
- [Quiz](#quiz)
- [Next Steps](#next-steps)
- [Additional Resources](#additional-resources)

## Introduction

Welcome to Chapter 3: Control Flow! 🚀 In this chapter, we embark on a journey through the logical constructs that give our programs decision-making abilities. We'll delve deep into conditionals and loops, creating a pathway for writing dynamic and interactive Python scripts. Get ready to build an engaging "Adventure Game" that provides a vibrant, user-driven experience!

## Lesson Plan

### 1. Conditionals
#### Understanding `if`, `elif`, and `else`
Conditionals are foundational blocks in Python that facilitate decision-making. An `if` statement checks a condition: if the condition is `True`, the code within the block is executed. Optionally, `elif` and `else` can be used to handle alternative outcomes.

```python
age = 18
if age >= 18:
    print("You are an adult.")
else:
    print("You are a minor.")
```

**Why Conditionals?** They allow our code to exhibit different behaviors based on certain conditions, enhancing its flexibility and adaptability to various scenarios.

#### Logical Operators
Logical operators, namely `and`, `or`, and `not`, enable us to create compound conditional statements, enriching our ability to express logical flows accurately.

```python
is_weekday = True
is_holiday = False
if is_weekday and not is_holiday:
    print("Time to work!")
```

**Importance:** Logical operators empower our conditionals, allowing us to craft more sophisticated and precise logical paths in our code.

### 2. Loops
#### Looping with `for`
A `for` loop iterates over a sequence (like a list, tuple, or string), executing a block of code for each element in the sequence.

```python
for fruit in ['apple', 'banana', 'cherry']:
    print(fruit)
```

**Benefit:** `for` loops allow us to automate repetitive tasks, making our code more efficient and concise.

#### Looping with `while`
A `while` loop perpetually executes a block of code as long as the specified condition remains `True`. Be cautious to avoid infinite loops!

```python
counter = 0
while counter < 5:
    print(counter)
    counter += 1
```

**Usage:** `while` loops are excellent when the number of iterations is unknown or contingent on dynamic conditions.

#### Controlling Loop Execution
- `break`: Prematurely exits the loop, halting further iterations.
- `continue`: Bypasses the remainder of the loop's code block and proceeds to the next iteration.

```python
for number in range(10):
    if number == 5:
        break  # Stops the loop when number equals 5
    elif number % 2 == 0:
        continue  # Skips even numbers
    print(number)
```

**Practicality:** Control statements like `break` and `continue` offer us greater control over loop execution, enabling us to manage iterations effectively.

### Bringing It All Together: Mini-Example
In this comprehensive mini-example, we'll create a small quiz game that encapsulates concepts from Chapters 1 and 2, in addition to the present chapter. This game will prompt the user to guess a number, giving them multiple tries until they either succeed or choose to quit, and will include input validation to ensure a smooth user experience.

```python
import random

# Use a predefined list of possible answers and select one using random.choice()
possible_answers = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
correct_answer = random.choice(possible_answers)

# Initialize a variable to control the while loop
user_guessed_correctly = False

# Provide instructions to the user
print("Welcome to the Number Guessing Game!")
print("I have selected a number between 1 and 5. Try to guess it!")
print("Type 'exit' anytime to stop playing.")

# Use a while loop to allow the user multiple guesses
while not user_guessed_correctly:
    # Capture user input and validate it
    user_input = input("Your guess: ")
    
    # Allow the user to exit the game
    if user_input.lower() == 'exit':
        print(f"The correct answer was {correct_answer}.")
        print("Thanks for playing! Goodbye.")
        break
    
    # Validate input: isnumeric and within the possible answers
    if user_input.isnumeric() and int(user_input) in possible_answers:
        user_answer = int(user_input)
        
        # Check the user's guess and provide feedback
        if user_answer == correct_answer:
            print("Congratulations! You guessed it right.")
            user_guessed_correctly = True  # End the loop
        else:
            print("Oops! That's not correct. Try again.")
    else:
        print("Invalid input. Please guess a number between 1 and 5.")
```

### Key Takeaways
- Conditionals (`if`, `elif`, `else`) enable decision-making.
- Loops (`for`, `while`) allow code to be repeated.
- Logical operators and loop control statements (`break`, `continue`) further manage control flow.

## Project: Adventure Game

### Objective

Construct an interactive, text-based adventure game where the user navigates through different scenarios by making choices.

### Requirements

- Provide the user with a series of choices.
- Use conditionals to determine the path the user takes through the game.
- Utilize loops to allow continuous gameplay until a termination condition is met.
- Ensure clear instructions and feedback for the user.

### Guidance

1. **Designing Scenarios:**
   - **Narrative Sketch:** Create a layout or script of your game's narrative, defining the various scenarios, potential user choices, and the consequences of those choices.
   
2. **User Choices:** 
   - **Capturing Input:** Utilize `input()` to obtain user choices at each decision point in your script.
   - **Validating Input:** Ensure the user's input is valid (for instance, if a choice between "1" and "2" is needed, check their input against these options) and provide feedback for invalid input. Use a loop to continuously request input until a valid response is received.

3. **Game Logic:** 
   - **Utilizing Conditionals:** Employ `if`, `elif`, and `else` statements to guide what occurs based on the user's choices.
   - **Implementing Loops:** 
     - **Input Loops:** Develop loops to allow users to maintain making choices until they provide a valid response.
     - **Game Loop:** Consider implementing a main game loop that propels the game forward until the user opts to exit, enabling a continuous play experience.
   
4. **Ending the Game:**
   - **Conclusions:** Decide how your game will conclude. Will it end automatically upon the storyline’s conclusion, or is there an option to replay? If replay is an option, ensure the game can restart cleanly.

5. **Testing:**
   - **Thorough Checks:** Ensure to test your game thoroughly. Confirm that all scenarios are navigable, invalid inputs are gracefully managed, and the game can progress from start to finish without unforeseen errors.

**Pro Tip:** Always prioritize user experience: offer clear instructions, ensure logical game flow, and aim for an engaging, fun interaction! This project is not only a test of your understanding of loops and conditionals but also an opportunity to create something enjoyable with your new Python skills!


## Quiz

Stay tuned! We'll be adding a quiz here to test your knowledge and understanding of the concepts learned in this chapter.

## Next Steps

Fantastic job on reaching the end of Chapter 3! 🎉 Ready for more adventures? Proceed to [Chapter 4](../04-data-structures/README.md) to explore data structures in Python.

## Additional Resources

- [Python Official Documentation: Control Flow](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/controlflow.html)
- [W3Schools: Python Conditions and If statements](https://www.w3schools.com/python/python_conditions.asp)
- [GeeksforGeeks: Loops in Python](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/loops-in-python/)

---
Happy Coding! 🚀

[Back to Main](../README.md)
