README.md, before:

# Project-Based Python Learning Course

Welcome to the Project-Based Python Learning Course! This repository, curated by [dsj7419](https://github.com/dsj7419), is designed to provide a hands-on and engaging approach to learning Python through practical projects.

<img src="./images/PythonLearning.png" alt="Python Learning By Projects" width="200"/>

## About The Course

This course is structured into different modules, each focusing on a particular topic in Python and associated with a project to provide a practical application of the concepts learned.

## Course Structure

1. **[Getting Started](01-getting-started/README.md)**
   - Environment Setup, Writing a Python Script
   - *Project: Hello, World! & Magic 8-Ball Simulator*

2. **[Variables and Data Types](02-variables-and-data-types/README.md)**
   - Variables, Data Types
   - *Project: Greeting Card*

3. **[Control Flow](03-control-flow/README.md)**
   - Conditionals, Loops
   - *Project: Adventure Game*

4. **[Data Structures](04-data-structures/README.md)**
   - Lists, Dictionaries, Sets
   - *Project: To-Do List Application*

5. **[Modular Programming](05-modular-programming/README.md)**
   - Benefits, Creating Modules, Importing Modules
   - *Project: Calculator*

6. **[File Operations](06-file-operations/README.md)**
   - File I/O, Working with Paths
   - *Project: Note-Keeping App*

7. **[Regular Expressions](07-regular-expressions/README.md)**
   - Pattern Matching, Data Extraction
   - *Project: Data Scraper*

8. **[Exception Handling](08-exception-handling/README.md)**
   - Try/Except, Raising Exceptions
   - *Project: Basic Data Entry System*

9. **[Object-Oriented Programming](09-object-oriented-programming/README.md)**
   - Classes, Objects, Inheritance
   - *Project: Library Management System*

10. **[External Libraries and Visualization](10-external-libraries/README.md)**
   - Using Libraries, Basic Data Visualization
   - *Project: Data Visualization with Matplotlib*

11. **[Testing and Debugging](11-testing-debugging/README.md)**
    - Unit Tests, Debugging Techniques
    - *Project: Testing a Shopping Cart System*

12. **[Version Control with Git](12-version-control/README.md)**
    - Git Basics, GitHub, Collaboration
    - *Project: Collaborative Document Editor*

13. **[Final Project](13-final-project/README.md)**
    - Integrating Learned Concepts
    - *Automated Report Generation and Distribution System*

## How to Use This Repository

- **Learners:** Navigate through the modules, read the concepts, and work on projects.
- **Contributors:** Feel free to improve existing content, add new projects, or enhance documentation.

## Getting Started

[Start your Python journey here](01-getting-started/README.md) by setting up your development environment and working on the first project!

## Contributing

Contributions are always welcome! Please read [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for guidelines on how to get started with contributing.

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

## Connect and Discuss

- [Join our Discussions](https://github.com/dsj7419/python-learning-by-projects/discussions)
- [Report Issues or Request Features](https://github.com/dsj7419/python-learning-by-projects/issues)

Happy Coding and Learning! 🚀

Commit message:

centralized quiz code so it will be easier to maintain and expand. added feedback into README on how to use the site

README.md, after:

# Project-Based Python Learning Course

Welcome to the Project-Based Python Learning Course! This repository, curated by [dsj7419](https://github.com/dsj7419), is designed to provide a hands-on and engaging approach to learning Python through practical projects.

<img src="./assets/images/PythonLearning.png" alt="Python Learning By Projects" width="200"/>

## About The Course

This course is structured into different modules, each focusing on a particular topic in Python and associated with a project to provide a practical application of the concepts learned.

## Course Structure

1. **[Getting Started](01-getting-started/README.md)**
   - Environment Setup, Writing a Python Script
   - *Project: Hello, World! & Magic 8-Ball Simulator*

2. **[Variables and Data Types](02-variables-and-data-types/README.md)**
   - Variables, Data Types
   - *Project: Greeting Card*

3. **[Control Flow](03-control-flow/README.md)**
   - Conditionals, Loops
   - *Project: Adventure Game*

4. **[Data Structures](04-data-structures/README.md)**
   - Lists, Dictionaries, Sets
   - *Project: To-Do List Application*

5. **[Modular Programming](05-modular-programming/README.md)**
   - Benefits, Creating Modules, Importing Modules
   - *Project: Calculator*

6. **[File Operations](06-file-operations/README.md)**
   - File I/O, Working with Paths
   - *Project: Note-Keeping App*

7. **[Regular Expressions](07-regular-expressions/README.md)**
   - Pattern Matching, Data Extraction
   - *Project: Data Scraper*

8. **[Exception Handling](08-exception-handling/README.md)**
   - Try/Except, Raising Exceptions
   - *Project: Basic Data Entry System*

9. **[Object-Oriented Programming](09-object-oriented-programming/README.md)**
   - Classes, Objects, Inheritance
   - *Project: Library Management System*

10. **[External Libraries and Visualization](10-external-libraries/README.md)**
   - Using Libraries, Basic Data Visualization
   - *Project: Data Visualization with Matplotlib*

11. **[Testing and Debugging](11-testing-debugging/README.md)**
    - Unit Tests, Debugging Techniques
    - *Project: Testing a Shopping Cart System*

12. **[Version Control with Git](12-version-control/README.md)**
    - Git Basics, GitHub, Collaboration
    - *Project: Collaborative Document Editor*

13. **[Final Project](13-final-project/README.md)**
    - Integrating Learned Concepts
    - *Automated Report Generation and Distribution System*

## How to Use This Repository

- **Learners:** Navigate through the modules, read the concepts, and work on projects on the [course website](https://dsj7419.github.io/python-learning-by-projects/). Each lesson is available as a separate page, and quizzes are integrated into the web interface for a seamless learning experience.
- **Contributors:** Feel free to improve existing content, add new projects, or enhance documentation by interacting with the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/dsj7419/python-learning-by-projects).

## Getting Started

[Start your Python journey here](01-getting-started/README.md) by setting up your development environment and working on the first project!

## Contributing

Contributions are always welcome! Please read [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for guidelines on how to get started with contributing.

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

## Connect and Discuss

- [Join our Discussions](https://github.com/dsj7419/python-learning-by-projects/discussions)
- [Report Issues or Request Features](https://github.com/dsj7419/python-learning-by-projects/issues)

Happy Coding and Learning! 🚀
